Beta PR 2 of 2: delimited serialization (#97)
UAVCAN/specification: specification/dsdl/serialization.tex

        AnyType.1.0[<=1] maybe_some
    \end{minted}
\end{remark}

\subsubsection{Delimited types}\label{sec:dsdl_serialization_composite_non_final}

Objects of delimited (non-final) composite types that are nested inside other objects\footnote{%
    Of any type, not necessarily composite; e.g., arrays.
}
are serialized into opaque containers that consist of two parts:
the fixed-length \emph{delimiter header},
immediately followed by the serialized representation of the object as if it was of a final type.

Objects of delimited composite types that are \emph{not} nested inside other objects (i.e., top-level objects)
are serialized as if they were of a final type (without the delimiter header).
The delimiter header, therefore, logically belongs to the container object rather than the contained one.

\begin{remark}
    Top-level objects do not require the delimiter header because the change in their length does not necessarily
    affect the backward compatibility thanks to the implicit truncation rule
    (section \ref{sec:dsdl_serialization_implicit_truncation}) and the implicit zero extension rule
    (section \ref{sec:dsdl_serialization_implicit_zero_extension}).
\end{remark}

> The delimiter header is an implicit field of type \verb|uint32| that encodes the length of the following
> serialized representation in bytes\footnote{%

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The delimiter header is an implicit field of type \verb|uint32| that encodes the length of the
serialized representation it preceeds in bytes\footnote{%
```

> serialized representation in bytes\footnote{%

Reviewer: Is this an apt description though? It really just encodes the offset in bytes that the next field starts at, right? The length of the datatype is still a property of the definition the transmitting node used and any variable-length array lengths.

Author: > It really just encodes the offset in bytes that the next field starts at, right?

Yes.

    Remember that by virtue of the padding requirement (section \ref{sec:dsdl_composite_alignment_cumulative_bls}),
    the length of the serialized representation of a composite type is always an integer number of bytes.
}.
During deserialization, if the length of the serialized representation reported by its delimiter header
does not match the expectation of the deserializer,
the implicit truncation (section \ref{sec:dsdl_serialization_implicit_truncation})
and the implicit zero extension (section \ref{sec:dsdl_serialization_implicit_zero_extension})
rules apply.

It is allowed for a final composite type to nest non-final composite types, and vice versa.
No special rules apply in such cases.

\begin{remark}
    The resulting serialized representation of a delimited composite is identical to \verb|uint8[<2**32]|
    (sans the higher alignment requirement).

>     The implicit array length prefix here is like the delimiter header,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The implicit array length field is like the delimiter header,
```

    the implementation may need to perform a second pass to reach the delimiter header
    after the object is serialized, because before that, the value of the delimiter header cannot be known
    unless the object is of a fixed-size (i.e., the cardinality of the bit length set is one).

    Consider:
    \begin{minted}{python}
        uint8[<=4] x
    \end{minted}
    Let $\texttt{x} = \left[ 4, 2 \right]$,
    then the nested serialized representation would be constructed as:
    \begin{enumerate}
        \item Memorize the current memory address $M_\text{origin}$.
        \item Skip 32 bits.
        \item Encode the length: 2 elements.
        \item Encode $x_0 = 4$.
        \item Encode $x_1 = 2$.
        \item Memorize the current memory address $M_\text{current}$.
        \item Go back to $M_\text{origin}$.
        \item Encode a 32-bit wide value of $(M_\text{current} - M_\text{origin})$.
        \item Go back to $M_\text{current}$.
    \end{enumerate}

    However, if the object is known to be of a constant size, the above can be simplified,
    because there may be only one possible value of the delimiter header.

>     Automatic code generation tools should take advantage of this knowledge for best result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Automatic code generation tools should take advantage of this knowledge.
```
